Explains more about the pagination available at Jakarta Data (#331)
jakartaee/data: spec/src/main/asciidoc/repository.asciidoc

KeysetAwarePage<User> olderThan(int age, Pageable pagination);
----

=== Pagination in Jakarta Data

> Pagination is a critical aspect of data access and retrieval in any application, including those developed in Java. It plays a crucial role in ensuring the efficient and user-friendly handling of large datasets. In Jakarta Data, APIs are provided to help Java developers manage and navigate through data efficiently. This session will discuss the importance of pagination in Java development and explore the two main types of pagination: Offset and Keyset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pagination is a critical aspect of data access and retrieval in many applications, including those developed in Java. It plays a crucial role in ensuring the efficient and user-friendly handling of large datasets. In Jakarta Data, APIs are provided to help Java developers manage and navigate through data efficiently. This session will discuss the importance of pagination in Java development and explore the two main types of pagination: Offset and Keyset.
```

2. *Resource Efficiency*: Pagination minimizes the memory and CPU resources required for data retrieval. It ensures that only a portion of the dataset is loaded at any given time, reducing the application's resource footprint.

3. *User Experience*: Implementing pagination in applications makes it easier for users to navigate through extensive lists or datasets. It enables users to view data incrementally and access relevant information more quickly.

4. *Scalability*: For applications that handle substantial amounts of data, pagination is essential for ensuring scalability. It prevents overloading the system and slowing down the application as the dataset grows.

5. *Responsive User Interfaces*: In web applications and graphical user interfaces (GUIs), pagination is essential for creating responsive, user-friendly interfaces. It allows users to access data with minimal latency.

Jakarta Data supports two main types of pagination: Offset and Keyset. These approaches differ in how they manage and retrieve paginated data:

> Offset pagination is the more traditional form based on "jumping" to a specific starting point in the dataset. It is typically used with a fixed page size, where a specified number of records is retrieved starting from a given offset position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Offset pagination is the more traditional form based on position relative to the first record in the dataset. It is typically used with a fixed page size, where a specified number of records is retrieved starting from a given offset position.
```

> Keyset pagination, also known as "seek method" or "keyset-based pagination," uses a unique key or value to navigate the dataset. It does not rely on fixed page sizes but retrieves records based on a specific key value. It is handy for datasets where the order of records matters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyset pagination, also known as seek method or cursor-based pagination, uses a unique key or unique combination of values (referred to as the keyset) to navigate the dataset relative to the first or last record of the current page. Keyset pagination is typically used with fixed page sizes but can accommodate varying the page size if desired. It is more robust when dealing with datasets where the underlying data might change and offers the the potential for improved performance by avoiding the need to scan records prior to the cursor.
```

The critical differences between Offset and Keyset pagination lie in their retrieval methods:

- Offset pagination uses a fixed page size and retrieves data based on page number and size.

> - Keyset pagination relies on a unique key or value to determine the next set of records and is suitable for datasets where order and value uniqueness are significant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keyset pagination relies on a unique key or unique combination of values (the keyset) for an entity relative to which it determines the next page or previous page.
```
